# MERGED_fixed_100
- MERGED_fixed_100 is the regularized regression based imputation method that leverages both the individual-level genotype and the whole blood expression for the imputation of tissue-specific transcriptome profile.
- We introduced this method in the study "__Building an optimal predictive model for imputing tissue-specific gene expression by combining genotype and whole blood transcriptome data__" in 2023 (currently on revision with HGG Advances).
- MERGED_fixed_100 is the best-working method among all gene expression imputation methods evaluated in our study.
- For a detailed description of MERGED_fixed_100, please refer to our study.
- Author / Maintainer: Sunwoo Jung < s17171717s@gmail.com >


## Notice
- The purpose of this repository is to provide instructions on how to access and explore the imputation models we generated using MERGED_fixed_100, for reproducility and transparency of our study.
- Using MERGED_fixed_100, we generated the imputation models for 47 human tissues.
- Due to the file size limit of GitHub, we uploaded the imputation models for 45 tissues to our ZENODO repository (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8079207).
- The models for _Skin Not Sun Exposed_ and _Skin Sun Exposed_ were omitted, since ZENODO also has the file size limit (50GB). We will be glad to share these omitted files with interested readers upon request.
- Here, we provide sample models to make it easier for users to follow the instructions. 


## Instruction
- This repository includes the jupyter notebook file named _access_models.ipynb_ along with the _sample_models_m.Rdata_ file.
- _access_models.ipynb_ is the R based jupyter notebook and contains the guideline for accessing and exploring the imputation models generated by MERGED_fixed_100.
- Below is our recommended instructions.
```
1. Locate the sample imputaion model file (Here: sample_models_m.Rdata) and access_models.ipynb in the same directory.
2. Run the jupyter notebook, open access_models.ipynb, and follow the codes.
```
- No version dependency is required.
- No need to import additional R function.
